Clarify the request-reply contract between host and device (#46)
harp-tech/protocol: BinaryProtocol-8bit.md

Reviewer: Do we really want to remove all these other existing sections, or was the idea to move them somewhere else? They don't seem to be all related to the request-reply contract.

Author: Oops this was an error with my PR. Not sure how I missed it. I will fix it asap.

### Commands

The device that implements this Harp Protocol receives `Write` and `Read` commands from the controller. As a rule of thumb, for each `Write` and `Read` command, a single reply message should be returned from the device with the same register address and register type, timestamped with the hardware time at which the command was evaluated. This behavior is fundamental to the protocol and is expected to be implemented by all Harp devices.

> It should be noted that the payload of the returned value might be different from the one issued by a `Write` command, as the device may have to transform or adapt the actual value written on the register. ([see "Register Polymorphism" section below](#register-polymorphism)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should be noted that the payload of the returned value might be different from the one issued by a `Write` command, as the device may have to transform or adapt the actual value written on the register ([see "Register Polymorphism" section below](#register-polymorphism)).
```

### Commands

> The device that implements this Harp Protocol receives `Write` and `Read` commands from the controller, and replies with a copy of the message, timestamped with the hardware time at which the command was applied. This behavior is core to the protocol and is expected to be implemented by all devices that use it. As a rule of thumb, for each `Write` or `Read` command, a single reply message should be returned from the device. The message should be emitted from the same register that the command was issued to. It should be noted that the payload of the returned value might be different from the one issued by the command, as the device can operate/transform the issued `Write` command. ([see "Register Polymorphism" section below](#register-polymorphism)).

Author: ```suggestion
The device that implements this Harp Protocol receives `Write` and `Read` commands from the controller, and replies with a message from the same address and same type, timestamped with the hardware time at which the command was applied. This behavior is core to the protocol and is expected to be implemented by all devices that use it. As a rule of thumb, for each `Write` or `Read` command, a single reply message should be returned from the device. The message should be emitted from the same register that the command was issued to. It should be noted that the payload of the returned value might be different from the one issued by the command, as the device can operate/transform the issued `Write` command. ([see "Register Polymorphism" section below](#register-polymorphism)).
```

> The device that implements this Harp Protocol receives `Write` and `Read` commands from the controller, and replies with a message from the same address and same type, timestamped with the hardware time at which the command was applied. This behavior is core to the protocol and is expected to be implemented by all devices that use it. As a rule of thumb, for each `Write` or `Read` command, a single reply message should be returned from the device. The message should be emitted from the same register that the command was issued to. It should be noted that the payload of the returned value might be different from the one issued by the command, as the device can operate/transform the issued `Write` command. ([see "Register Polymorphism" section below](#register-polymorphism)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device that implements this Harp Protocol receives `Write` and `Read` commands from the controller. As a rule of thumb, for each `Write` and `Read` command, a single reply message should be returned from the device with the same register address and register type, timestamped with the hardware time at which the command was evaluated. This behavior is fundamental to the protocol and is expected to be implemented by all Harp devices.

It should be noted that the payload of the returned value might be different from the one issued by a `Write` command, as the device may have to transform or adapt the actual value written on the register. ([see "Register Polymorphism" section below](#register-polymorphism)).
```

Simplify sentence structure to remove redundant statements and make the text more clear and compact.

> > Exceptions to the previous contract are possible but should be avoided. The single supported exception is the `R_OPERATION_CTRL` (via  **DUMP [Bit 3]**) that allows the controller to request a dump of all registers in the device. In this case, the device should reply with a single `Write` message from `R_OPERATION_CTRL`, honoring the previous contract, but will it also emit a volley of `Read` messages, one for each register in the device.

Reviewer: An interesting possibility which was mentioned in the SRM meeting is to send the `Write` reply message only after the full register dump is executed, which would allow us to keep track of the exact moment when the initial state of the device has been recorded.

> > Exceptions to the previous contract are possible but should be avoided. The single supported exception is the `R_OPERATION_CTRL` (via  **DUMP [Bit 3]**) that allows the controller to request a dump of all registers in the device. In this case, the device should reply with a single `Write` message from `R_OPERATION_CTRL`, honoring the previous contract, but will it also emit a volley of `Read` messages, one for each register in the device.

Author: I am tempted to not address this detail in this PR and instead open an issue to discuss it. My fear is that writing something here without fully understanding the implications of standardizing the read-dump procedure may: 1. lead to premature commitment; 2. breaking changes since devices already implement a specific procedure.

The timestamp information in the [RPL] represents the time when the register with [Address] was updated.

#### Read Message

- [CMD] **Controller**: `1` `4`      `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Checksum`
- [RPL] **Device**: `1` `Length` `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Timestamp<T>` `Checksum`       OK
- [RPL] **Device**: `9` `10`     `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Timestamp<T>` `Checksum`        ERROR

The timestamp information in the [RPL] represents the time when the register with [Address] was read.

#### Event message

- [EVT] **Device**: `3` `Length` `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Timestamp<T>` `Checksum`      OK

The timestamp information in [EVT] represents the time when the register with [Address] was read.

### Intended Usage

#### Register polymorphism

> While it is technically possible to have different types of data in the same register, we **STRONGLY** discourage this practice. The protocol was designed to be as simple as possible, and having different types of data in the same register would make the parsing of the messages unnecessarily more complex. As a rule, each register should: (1) have a single data type (e.g. `U8`) for all message types (`Read`, `Write`, `Event`), (2) have a payload with the same "function"/"meaning" regardless of the message type (see examples below), and (3) have the same payload size for all message types coming from the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is technically possible to have different types of data in the same register, we **STRONGLY** discourage this practice. The protocol was designed to be as simple as possible, and having different types of data in the same register would make the parsing of the messages unnecessarily more complex.

As a general rule, each register should:
  1. have a single data type (e.g. `U8`) for all message types (`Read`, `Write`, `Event`),
  2. have a payload with the same functional semantics regardless of the message type (see examples below), and
  3. have the same payload size for all message types coming from the device.
```

Breakdown the different rules for ease of reference.

> It should be noted that this recommendation does not require that the payload issued by a `Write` message should be the same as the one issued by a `Read` message, as the device can operate/transform the issued `Write`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It should be noted that this recommendation does not require that the payload issued by a `Write` message be the same as the one issued by a `Read` message, as the device may have to transform or update the actual value stored in the register.
```

Style tweaks for clarity.

> **Examples**
>
> Consider the following register:
>
>```
>   CameraFrequency:
>   - Address: 32
>   - Type: U8
>   - Access: Read, Write
>   - Description: Sets the frequency of the camera in Hz.
>```
>
> ❌ DO NOT return the frequency in U16 for a `Read` command and the frequency in U8 for a `Write` command. (i.e. share the same data type.)
> ❌ DO NOT return the frequency in Hz for a `Read` command and the period in seconds for a `Write` command. (i.e. share the same function/meaning.)
>
> ✅ DO return the frequency in U8 for both a `Read` and `Write` command.
> ✅ DO return the frequency in Hz for both a `Read` and a `Write` command.

> > ✅ DO allow writing a value of `101` to set the frequency, but both `Read` and `Write` return the frequency of 100Hz. This behavior is perfectly acceptable as the device might not be able to set the frequency to the exact value requested by the controller, and instead returns the value that was set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ✅ DO allow writing a value of `101` to set the frequency even if both `Read` and `Write` replies will only return the frequency of 100Hz. This behavior is perfectly acceptable as the device might not be able to set the frequency to the exact value requested by the controller, and instead returns the value that was set.
```

Tweak for clarity.

The timestamp information in the [RPL] represents the time when the register with [Address] was updated.

#### Read Message

- [CMD] **Controller**: `1` `4`      `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Checksum`
- [RPL] **Device**: `1` `Length` `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Timestamp<T>` `Checksum`       OK
- [RPL] **Device**: `9` `10`     `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Timestamp<T>` `Checksum`        ERROR

The timestamp information in the [RPL] represents the time when the register with [Address] was read.

#### Event message

- [EVT] **Device**: `3` `Length` `Address` `Port` `PayloadType` `Timestamp<T>` `Checksum`      OK

The timestamp information in [EVT] represents the time when the register with [Address] was read.

### Intended Usage

#### Register polymorphism

> While it is possible to have different types of data in the same register, we **STRONGLY** discourage this practice. The protocol was designed to be as simple as possible, and having different types of data in the same register would make the parsing of the messages unnecessary more complex. As a rule, each register should: (1) have a single data type (e.g. `U8`) for all message types (`Read`, `Write`, `Event`), (2) the payload should have the same "function"/"meaning" regardless of the message type (see examples below), and (3) the payload data should be of the same size for all message types.

Author: I do think its clear. Also, since the payload is effectively discarded with `Read` messages, even if this distinction is not clear, it is technically not relevant either.
